docs/content-generation.md, before:

# Content Generation Playbook

This document is the single reference for creating new 1MinuteAcademy modules (topics) at scale.

## Goal

Create modules as **data** (JSON) so you can ship thousands of topics without adding new React pages/components per module.

A module = one row in Supabase `public.topics` (or one local JSON file that can be synced into that table).

## Where content lives

### Local authoring (recommended for drafting)

- `content/topics/<Subject>/<topicId>.topic.json`
  - Example: `content/topics/Quantum & Physics/quantum.topic.json`

Draft-only (ignored by git):
- `content/_drafts/`
- `content/_local/`

### Production

- Supabase table: `public.topics`
  - Column `lesson` is the whole lesson JSON

## Topic JSON format (high level)

Required fields:
- `id`: stable slug (used in URLs like `/topic/:id` and `/lesson/:id`)
- `subject`: category grouping (e.g. `Technology`)
- `title`, `emoji`, `color`, `description`, `difficulty`, `published`
- `lesson`: `{ version, totalSeconds, steps: [...] }`

Validation:
- Schemas live in `content/schema/`
- Run `npm run content:validate` before preview/sync

## Step types (reusable interactions)

A lesson is a timed sequence of steps. Each step has a `type` which maps to a reusable React component.

Current supported step types:
- `intro`
- `tapReveal`
- `buildChain`
- `summary`
 - `eitherOr` (one-tap snap choice)
 - `tapSprint` (6–12 fast taps)
 - `recipe` (wraps a recipeId into one of the primitives)

These are implemented in `src/engine/stepTypes/` and mapped in `src/engine/LessonRenderer.jsx`.

### Step recipes (200+ options without 200 components)

Instead of creating hundreds of React step components, we keep a **small primitive set** and a large **recipe catalog**.

Use this in topic JSON:
- `type: "recipe"`
- `recipeId: "eitherOr_thisOrThat_01"` (pick from the catalog)

Catalog:
- See [step-recipes.md](step-recipes.md)

### Rule of thumb

- Adding a new topic should only require editing JSON.
- Only add new step types when you need a brand-new interaction pattern.

## Preview vs publish

### Preview in staging (recommended)

1. Add/edit JSON under `content/topics/**`
2. Validate: `npm run content:validate`
3. Sync to staging (recommended single-topic):
  - `npm run content:sync:staging -- --topic <topicId>`
4. Run the app against staging Supabase: `npm run dev`

Tip: after completing a lesson, check `/me` (Profile) and the landing page badges to verify progress behavior.

### Scaffold a new topic JSON

Simple (writes `content/topics/<Subject>/<topicId>.topic.json`):

- `npm run content:scaffold -- --id <topicId> --subject "<Subject>" --title "<Title>" --description "<One-liner>"`

Hierarchy (recommended; writes `content/topics/<categoryId>/<courseId>/<chapterId>/<topicId>.topic.json`):

- `npm run content:scaffold -- --id <topicId> --title "<Title>" --courseId <courseId> --chapterId <chapterId> --description "<One-liner>"`

Optional:
- `--seed <any>` to make generated defaults deterministic
- `--dry-run` to print JSON without writing a file

### Publish to Supabase (production)

1. Ensure JSON validates (`npm run content:validate`)
2. Set `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` in `.env.local` (scripts only)
3. Run one of:
  - Sync a single topic (recommended): `npm run content:sync -- --topic <topicId>`
  - Bulk sync (safe by default): `npm run content:sync`

By default, the sync script is *safe*:
- Inserts new topics
- Updates existing topics **only when** `lesson.version` in local JSON is **higher** than what’s already in Supabase

This prevents accidental overwrites if you made manual edits in Supabase.

To intentionally publish edits to an existing module:
- Bump `lesson.version` in the local topic JSON, then re-run sync.

Advanced flags:
- Preview without writing: `npm run content:sync -- --dry-run`
- Force an update regardless of version: `npm run content:sync -- --topic <id> --force`
- Only insert new topics (never update): `npm run content:sync -- --insert-only`

Notes:
- The sync script auto-loads `.env.local`.
- Find the key in Supabase Dashboard → Project Settings → API → Project API keys → `service_role`.
- Guardrail: the sync script refuses to run if `VITE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` is set.

## Important: don’t use SQL as your content workflow

Use [supabase/001_init.sql](supabase/001_init.sql) for schema/RLS/RPC. Avoid adding new modules by editing the SQL file.

Instead:
- Draft new modules in `content/topics/**`
- Preview via staging sync: `npm run content:sync:staging -- --topic <id>` + `npm run dev`
- Publish with `npm run content:sync -- --topic <id>`

## Content guidelines (so it fits in 60 seconds)

- Keep text short; prefer 1–2 sentences per step.
- Use 3–4 steps per lesson for clarity.
- Sum of all `steps[].seconds` should equal `lesson.totalSeconds` (target: 60).
- Prefer simple interactions that a user can complete quickly (tap reveal, quick build, 3-option checks).

## Adding a new step type (code change)

When you need a new interaction pattern:
1. Add a new component under `src/engine/stepTypes/`
2. Map it in `src/engine/LessonRenderer.jsx`
3. Add the new type to `content/schema/step.schema.json`
4. Run `npm run build`

This is the only time adding content requires a frontend build/deploy.

Commit message:

chore: wipe all AI & Art content; enforce beat text length limits
Deleted:
- 23 course plan files (content/course-plans/)
- 746 topic JSON files (content/topics/ai/, content/topics/art/)
- 746 OG images (public/og/topics/ai--*, art--*)

Added beat text length enforcement (3 layers):
- story.schema.json: maxLength 120 on beat text, 80 on punchline
- generateCourseTopicJsons.mjs: rejects beats exceeding limits
- validateContent.mjs: inherits schema rules via AJV

All future course plans must respect these limits:
  hook/buildup/discovery/twist/climax: max 120 chars
  punchline: max 80 chars

This ensures users can comfortably read each beat within the
8-second display window (~20 words at 2.5 words/sec).

docs/content-generation.md, after:

# Content Generation Playbook

This document is the single reference for creating new 1MinuteAcademy modules (topics) at scale.

## Goal

Create modules as **data** (JSON) so you can ship thousands of topics without adding new React pages/components per module.

A module = one row in Supabase `public.topics` (or one local JSON file that can be synced into that table).

## Where content lives

### Local authoring (recommended for drafting)

- `content/topics/<Subject>/<topicId>.topic.json`
  - Example: `content/topics/Quantum & Physics/quantum.topic.json`

Draft-only (ignored by git):
- `content/_drafts/`
- `content/_local/`

### Production

- Supabase table: `public.topics`
  - Column `lesson` is the whole lesson JSON

## Topic JSON format (high level)

Required fields:
- `id`: stable slug (used in URLs like `/topic/:id` and `/lesson/:id`)
- `subject`: category grouping (e.g. `Technology`)
- `title`, `emoji`, `color`, `description`, `difficulty`, `published`
- `lesson`: `{ version, totalSeconds, steps: [...] }`

Validation:
- Schemas live in `content/schema/`
- Run `npm run content:validate` before preview/sync

## Step types (reusable interactions)

A lesson is a timed sequence of steps. Each step has a `type` which maps to a reusable React component.

Current supported step types:
- `intro`
- `tapReveal`
- `buildChain`
- `summary`
 - `eitherOr` (one-tap snap choice)
 - `tapSprint` (6–12 fast taps)
 - `recipe` (wraps a recipeId into one of the primitives)

These are implemented in `src/engine/stepTypes/` and mapped in `src/engine/LessonRenderer.jsx`.

### Step recipes (200+ options without 200 components)

Instead of creating hundreds of React step components, we keep a **small primitive set** and a large **recipe catalog**.

Use this in topic JSON:
- `type: "recipe"`
- `recipeId: "eitherOr_thisOrThat_01"` (pick from the catalog)

Catalog:
- See [step-recipes.md](step-recipes.md)

### Rule of thumb

- Adding a new topic should only require editing JSON.
- Only add new step types when you need a brand-new interaction pattern.

## Preview vs publish

### Preview in staging (recommended)

1. Add/edit JSON under `content/topics/**`
2. Validate: `npm run content:validate`
3. Sync to staging (recommended single-topic):
  - `npm run content:sync:staging -- --topic <topicId>`
4. Run the app against staging Supabase: `npm run dev`

Tip: after completing a lesson, check `/me` (Profile) and the landing page badges to verify progress behavior.

### Scaffold a new topic JSON

Simple (writes `content/topics/<Subject>/<topicId>.topic.json`):

- `npm run content:scaffold -- --id <topicId> --subject "<Subject>" --title "<Title>" --description "<One-liner>"`

Hierarchy (recommended; writes `content/topics/<categoryId>/<courseId>/<chapterId>/<topicId>.topic.json`):

- `npm run content:scaffold -- --id <topicId> --title "<Title>" --courseId <courseId> --chapterId <chapterId> --description "<One-liner>"`

Optional:
- `--seed <any>` to make generated defaults deterministic
- `--dry-run` to print JSON without writing a file

### Publish to Supabase (production)

1. Ensure JSON validates (`npm run content:validate`)
2. Set `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` in `.env.local` (scripts only)
3. Run one of:
  - Sync a single topic (recommended): `npm run content:sync -- --topic <topicId>`
  - Bulk sync (safe by default): `npm run content:sync`

By default, the sync script is *safe*:
- Inserts new topics
- Updates existing topics **only when** `lesson.version` in local JSON is **higher** than what’s already in Supabase

This prevents accidental overwrites if you made manual edits in Supabase.

To intentionally publish edits to an existing module:
- Bump `lesson.version` in the local topic JSON, then re-run sync.

Advanced flags:
- Preview without writing: `npm run content:sync -- --dry-run`
- Force an update regardless of version: `npm run content:sync -- --topic <id> --force`
- Only insert new topics (never update): `npm run content:sync -- --insert-only`

Notes:
- The sync script auto-loads `.env.local`.
- Find the key in Supabase Dashboard → Project Settings → API → Project API keys → `service_role`.
- Guardrail: the sync script refuses to run if `VITE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` is set.

## Important: don’t use SQL as your content workflow

Use [supabase/001_init.sql](supabase/001_init.sql) for schema/RLS/RPC. Avoid adding new modules by editing the SQL file.

Instead:
- Draft new modules in `content/topics/**`
- Preview via staging sync: `npm run content:sync:staging -- --topic <id>` + `npm run dev`
- Publish with `npm run content:sync -- --topic <id>`

## Content guidelines (so it fits in 60 seconds)

### Story beat text length limits (enforced)

Each topic has a 6-beat story. Each beat displays for **8 seconds**.  
To keep text readable at that pace, **strict character limits are enforced** at
three levels: the JSON schema, the validation script, and the generation script.

| Beat       | Max characters | ~Max words |
|------------|---------------|-----------|
| hook       | 120           | ~20       |
| buildup    | 120           | ~20       |
| discovery  | 120           | ~20       |
| twist      | 120           | ~20       |
| climax     | 120           | ~20       |
| punchline  | 80            | ~13       |

**Where enforced:**
- `content/schema/story.schema.json` → `maxLength` on beat `text` property
- `scripts/generateCourseTopicJsons.mjs` → rejects any beat that exceeds the limit
- `scripts/validateContent.mjs` → uses the schema, so it catches violations too
- CI → runs `content:validate` on every push

**Writing tips:**
- One idea per beat. If you need a comma, you probably need two beats.
- Prefer concrete over abstract ("predicts the next word" > "uses statistical methods").
- Punchline = mic-drop. Make it punchy and memorable.
- Use the visual emoji to carry context so the text doesn't have to.

### General content rules

- Keep text short; prefer 1–2 sentences per step.
- Use 3–4 steps per lesson for clarity.
- Sum of all `steps[].seconds` should equal `lesson.totalSeconds` (target: 60).
- Prefer simple interactions that a user can complete quickly (tap reveal, quick build, 3-option checks).

## Adding a new step type (code change)

When you need a new interaction pattern:
1. Add a new component under `src/engine/stepTypes/`
2. Map it in `src/engine/LessonRenderer.jsx`
3. Add the new type to `content/schema/step.schema.json`
4. Run `npm run build`

This is the only time adding content requires a frontend build/deploy.
